h1. Introduction

The EPUB support in Eclipse is built around a data model describing the publication along with various mechanisms to manipulate this structure and assemble a EPUB file. The model is expressed in "Ecore":http://wiki.eclipse.org/Ecore, representing the "Open Packaging Format (OPF)":http://idpf.org/epub/20/spec/OPF_2.0.1_draft.htm, a subset of Dublin Core and the Navigation Control File (NCX). All required parts of a properly assembled EPUB file following the 2.0.1 revision of the standard.

The mechanisms mentioned is an API for handling the EPUB and a Ant task that can be used during building. The following code shows the minimum Ant script required to generate a publication.

bc.. 
<html-to-epub file="my.epub">
	<title text="My book" />
	<subject text="My subject"/>
	<item file="MyChapter.html"/>
</html-to-epub>

p. Some of the fields required by will be automatically created and added to the publication when not specified in the Ant script. The table of contents will for instance be automatically created, the language set to __en__ for "English" and an identifier (based on UUID) will be generated. Details can be found in the chapter describing the "epub":epub-ant-task.html Ant task.

p. Several other methods can be applied to obtain the same result. You can write the document in Apple's __Pages__ and directly export to EPUB. You can write it in Microsoft's __Word__ and convert it to EPUB using "EPUBGen":http://code.google.com/p/epub-tools/, in DocBook and convert it using "docbook2epub":http://code.google.com/p/epub-tools/ or even manually assembling the publication using various command line tools. All these methods have their merits but few can be easily used to assemble publications during a __continuous build__ and none can be used without adding a few extra dependencies such as Ruby or Python. 

p. Hence the primary goal of this feature is to create a mechanism that allows consistent building of EPUB files adhering to all relevant standards, using ANT tasks, while introducing as few dependencies as possible.
